Context:

InferenceX: 
A SemiAnalysis Benchmark submission platform, benchmark with 8k1k 1k1k random dataset to create a pareto curve, Nvidia to find and submit a list of recipes with configs and benchmark concurrency that could produce the pareto curve. 
SA has dedicated cluster to produce the number and publish to the SA website. 
Dynamo will be used for all Disaggregated serving submission.
InferenceX is on it's way to deprecation.

TRTLLM: TRTLLM hand over us a list of recipes based on different hardware, dynamo team reproduce the number with dynamo and submit to SemiAnalysis
vLLM and SGLang: Two teams working on finding the best pareto curve based on different hardware, dynamo team occationally take the duty to finding the best pareto curve based on different hardware

AgentX:
A new SemiAnalysis Benchmark platform, benchmark with agentic dataset, allowing the KV cache reuse and offloading, router plays a major role in distributed inferencing. 
create a pareto curve, Nvidia to find and submit a list of recipes with configs and benchmark concurrency that could produce the pareto curve. 
Dynamo will be used for all Disaggregated serving submission.
SA has SA has dedicated cluster to produce the number and publish to the SA website. 

TRTLLM: TRTLLM hand over us a list of recipes based on different hardware, dynamo team reproduce the number with dynamo and submit to SemiAnalysis
vLLM and SGLang: Two teams working on finding the best pareto curve based on different hardware, dynamo team occationally take the duty to finding the best pareto curve based on different hardware

AgentPerf:
Artifical Analysis submission platform, benchmark with agentic dataset, allowing the KV cache reuse and offloading, router plays a major role in distributed inferencing. 
Initially, Focusing on Service Level Objective (SLO) at target concurrency, for example, at a target concurrency, TTFT p95 must be ≤10 seconds and SSE/TPOT p25 must be ≥20 tokens/sec, we should produce as lower TTFT and as higher SSE token/sec P25. 
Now migrated to the perato curve. 
Dynamo will be used for all Disaggregated serving submission.
AA has dedicated cluster to produce the number and AA doesn't have a dedicated repo and runner to produce the number, they reply on us to provide them all the runner information and target perf number and reproduce the number by themselves.

TRTLLM: TRTLLM hand over us a recipe or a list of recipes based on different hardware, dynamo team reproduce the number.
vLLM and SGLang: No Disaggregated submissions yet. 

Biggest problems:
1. The benchmark handoff is not reproducible. (mismatch image, recipes, client, env, command line)
   Client mismatch issue: GLM-5 TRTLLM GB300 submission: Transformers-v5 GLM-5 could not load under TRT-LLM’s v4 stack → custom_tokenizer: glm_moe_dsa
   Client mismatch issue: Qwen3.5 TRTLLM GB300 submission: sa-bench made a new aiohttp.ClientSession per request. At c17920 this created connection/ephemeral-port churn, bursty admission, under-filled batches, and poor throughput.
   Benchmark orchstration mismatch: DSv4 TRTLLM GB300 Submission: TRTLLM team insert a numactl configuration command to launch the engine to reduce the KV transfer overhead.
   Benchmark dataset concurrency round number is unknown: GLM5 GB300 submission: TRTLLM team uses 16, but we use 10
   Perf number is only reproducible using very long warmup period: DSv4 TRTLLM GB300 Submission: TRTLLM team insert a numactl configuration command to launch the engine to reduce the KV transfer overhead.
   
   All submission's issue:
   All these submissions, trtllm team and dynamo are not using the same image to do benchmarking, trtllm team using a image built from a commit. dynamo use a release image to submit.
   No standard slurm cluster orchstration tool for AgentPerf, makes the percise reproduction very hard. 

2. Many failures are discovered during full sweeps or on the real submission runner rather than during handoff or initial validation. (Submission pipeline issue, accuracy tests failure, model availability)
   In vLLM MiniMax M3 submission, the B300 submission cluster has node failure causing the network failure. 
   In TRTLLM GLM5 GB300 submission, the MNNVL all reduce stretegy shows the accuracy issue which cannot pass the eval.
   In DSv4 InferenceX GB300 submission: The submission cluster's nodes cannot load the big model due to driver issue.
   In DSv4 AgentX GB300 submission: The submission cluster's nodes cannot load the big model due to driver issue again.

   All submission's issue:
   UCX knobs to be configured correctly in all submissions. 
   Models need to present in the Submission cluster. 
   Container need to be manually copied to the submission cluster in AgentPerf. 
   

3. Resolve the perf gap between dynamo and framework native serving. (finding the right config to match trtllm-serve performance, and figure out how dynamo should interact with the evolving engine behavior). 
   In vLLM Minimax M2.5 GB300 submission. Dynamo's high GIL overhead cause the perf degradation, need to setup high stream_interval to work around.
   In GLM5 GB300 submission, dynamo need to make the garbage collection effective in trtllm worker. 
   In DSv4 GB300 submission, dynamo need to specifically use TCP request plane and bump the the concurrent worker limits, also need to binary search the best worker limits.
   In Qwen3.5 submission, dynamo need to specifically use TCP request plane and bump the the concurrent worker limits, also need to binary search the best worker limits.
   In all AgentPerf 4 DSv4 submission, dynamo need to adopt the conv aware routing solution and make sure we implement the trtllm server's routing behavior.
   In all AgentPerf 4 DSv4 submission, dynamo need find tokenization knobs to reduce the tokenization overhead
   In all AgentPerf 4 DSv4 submission, dynamo need find router knobs to remove the router queuing and config the router temperature.

   In all InferenceX 4 submission, dynamo need to enable multiple frontends to reduce the tokenization overhead.

4. Dynamo's bug causing the perf degradation. (not the major part we will cover)
   In SGLang DSR1 submission, Dynamo has a bug to only route the request to rank 0.
   In Kimi K2.5 GB200 submission, Dynamo has a tokenization bug that will encode the sequence into more tokens
   In MiniMax M2.5 TRTLLM submission, AgentPerf gptoss submission, AgentX DSv4 submission, Dynamo should explicitly turn off the --publish-events-and-metrics since that produce the overhead. 
